Hi friends, welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. If this is your first time joining,
it's so nice to meet you. I'm Rachel. If you want to say hi in the chat, please do.
The Data Science Hangout is an open space for the whole data science community to connect
and chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing and what's going on in the world
of data science. I'd like to remind everyone the sessions are recorded and shared to the
RStudio YouTube and our Data Science Hangout site. So you can always go back and rewatch
or find sessions that you missed too. We also have a LinkedIn group for the Hangout. This
also helps you find people and connect with each other, continue discussions. I'll share
that in the chat in just a second here. But together we're all dedicated to making this
a welcoming space for everybody and we love when everyone can participate and we can
hear from everybody. So no matter your level of experience or area of work, there's always
three ways you can ask questions. You could jump in here by raising your hand on Zoom.
You can put questions into the Zoom chat and feel free to just put a little star there
if you want me to read it out loud instead. Or else I could just call on you to introduce
yourself and add some context. We also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously.
And we'll share that in the chat in just a second here too. I just started adding this
in because I always frame this as questions. But if you have something to add to a specific
topic, like your own perspective to share on something, we'd love to hear that too.
And also wanted to mention that if you are currently hiring, we love to be able to have
people share those open roles in the chat as well. So feel free to use that chat to
share links. We don't see that as spammy if you want to share open positions there. But
with all that, I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host for today, Melissa Perry, Senior
Manager E-commerce Analytics at Peloton. And Melissa, I know you've been here in the audience
quite a few times. So great to have you here as our leader for today. We'd love to have
you introduce yourself and maybe share a little bit about your role in the work that you do.
Maybe also something you do in your free time as well.
Thanks, Rachel. Thank you for having me. I always enjoy coming into this community and
hearing from the other leaders and practitioners in this space. So I'm really pleased to be
here today. Well, I've been in business intelligence and data science for the majority of the last
10 years in my career. I love helping leaders make decisions. It's part of what I do, just
taking a really complex environment. And I feel it's part of my purpose to help people
understand the truth and most recently help people understand what's coming and what I
recommend they should do because of what's coming. So that's where I really find my passion.
I've worked in many industries. I started off my career in Toyota and purchasing and
being in a very quality-driven manufacturing lean environment. And then I've also worked
in public education. I've worked in telecommunications. And I would say that my role in telecommunications
is an analytics engineer. That's where I really kind of kicked off my obsession with moving
into data science and learning how to automate decisions. There was just data everywhere
in my role at U.S. Cellular Corporation. I also became an R user there, heavy R user.
And with that, that exposure, I decided to level up my skills and pursue a master's in
data science while I was an analytics engineer there. I went to the University of Eau Claire,
Wisconsin Eau Claire, and just recently completed that. And I'm obsessed with this problem of
predictive maintenance. It's one of my passion areas. How do you help an organization predict
when something will fail and thus do all of the activities upstream to prepare for that event?
I just love it. But my most recent role, as you said, has been coming onto the team
at Peloton. I joined at the height of the pandemic in February 2021, and I adopted a
little pod of people called the e-commerce analytics pod on our data science team. And
we built a dream team. Some of them are on the call today. Just great colleagues and friends
and just really smart people that are passionate about helping our stakeholders to make decisions
around, gosh, you name it, extended warranty. Diana's talking right now. She has a model called
serial number event stream where she helps predict when our bikes will fail and helps our supply
chain team prepare for that. And gosh, I just can't say enough good things. Our referral program,
our member support agency, how can we help those folks to provide our members with a better
post-purchase experience once they buy one of our connected fitness units?
This has been an incredible journey for me because I stepped into formal people leadership
when I came onto Peloton. And not only did I take on a team and get to work with all these
great people, but it's no secret that it's been a lesson in change management for me,
heavy change management, every three to four months change management. So I'm passionate
about sharing with you about that journey, and I'm happy to answer any questions you might have
about what that's been like doing analytics in that kind of environment and building out my team.
That's great. Thank you. Yeah. I'm excited to ask you more about that too. One part of the first
question, what's something fun that you like to do in your free time outside of work too?
Oh, cooking, definitely cooking. I am all about the kitchen. I like using cookbooks. I really
like to be methodical and get everything ready to go so that I can enjoy myself while I cook and
listen to music and things. But I work remotely, and that's something that I do in the evening,
that I just love the ability to do that. I love it. I noticed that a lot of people say
cooking on here. Maybe there's some relationship between data science and cooking for sure.
Thank you for sharing how you've been building the dream team. And I would love to learn a little
bit more while we're waiting for questions to come in about how you approach growing and
developing your team. Yeah, absolutely. So I inherited some team members who were already
here. There were two when I came into the e-commerce analytics space, and then I grew
people. I like a diversity in thought when I approach building an analytics team. So we took
folks with direct domain experience and the member support agency who are interfacing with customers
because I was trying to improve that e-commerce experience. We thought, well, let's get some folks
that know it best. They've come from the front lines, but they also want to grow their career
in data science. So I've grown people from that level, and then I also grow people who are kind of
mid-level in their data analysis career and kind of get them to the next step. So how do you...
And the most common pain point is like... And I got here in my career where it's like you spend
all this time building dashboards or building a presentation, and then you're like, okay, what next?
What are you going to do with that? And so I like to throw people over that loop and get them
thinking about how do I deliver insights? How do I deliver recommendations? Kind of like my favorite
part of it. But I start pretty nascent. At Peloton, we have in our central data science
team, we're kind of like a center of excellence model. And so we sit right alongside our data
engineering team, and there's quite a bit of dev work that is expected from our data analysts all
the way up to our data engineers and data scientists that might not be expected on all
the other teams that I'd work for. So I start real simple with folks. I pull up the terminal,
and we start with Linux commands and things like that and build from there. And then we
start with Git. You've got to have some development skill on our team. And so
we practice what that means and kind of help them understand that I'm about to throw you
for a loop here. We're about to do some things that are uncomfortable, but it's okay. You're
supported, and you're going to be fine. And then beyond that, we start exposing our team
members to requests that come in that could be helpful to folks, like reporting. So there's
always a need at Peloton to help people across the company understand what's going on,
how many people are eligible for this promotion or this particular refund event because of where
they are in their post-sale process. So there's always opportunities like that where you can
really get a team member's hands dirty early on, and they can understand the data warehouse, the
Mart, use BI tools. We use Looker and Tableau here at Peloton. So how can you create that report?
And then after someone demonstrates their ability there, I start to put them in front of stakeholders
more so and start to build that consult up. And the consult for me is really based in ensuring
they can do design thinking and build empathy with that stakeholder and start to recommend,
here's what you're asking me for, which typically stops at reporting, right?
But here's what I think you need to be asking me. Can you expand a bit on design thinking
and what that means for your team? Yeah, so design thinking is an approach to really getting
to know people and their pain points as you're trying to help them. So on my team, we have
like four to five strong stakeholder groups where I have a, not a dotted line, but a real
strong relationship with a leader at Peloton. So let's say it's our extended warranty program.
I get to know what's bothering that leader data-wise, like what is, what is, what are you on the
hook for? What are you struggling to measure? How much are you doing? How well are you doing it?
What is your goal? And I try to help my team to build the same level of consult and empathy
with their counterparts on that leader's team so that they can really provide helpful solutions
with data. And that's been strong and it helps them think about
how do they design their approach? Like what is this model that we're going to build really be
able to do? What are the actions that this person is struggling to do and how can I use data to help
with that? So it's really kind of like a brainstorming activity, but you're putting
yourself in the shoes of that stakeholder, getting to know them, figuring out how you
can be most helpful. I love that explanation. Thank you. That's so helpful. I see there's,
there's a lot of questions starting to come in now. And one that came in on Slido was,
do you share any best practices or lessons learned from the e-commerce analytics team?
Do you have a blog, for example? We do. We have a couple things that we do at Peloton that have
really helped us to communicate about our successes. And we're going to be expanding
upon these, but we have a newsletter that we work with our central project management team,
and we share our wins. We also share some things that we're struggling with that we call like
dirty laundry. It is just, you know, it's a startup, so nothing's perfect at Peloton.
But we share how we're working through some of those issues. And then my favorite thing that
we do is we have what we call a data town hall. And because we're that central analytics team,
sometimes it can be hard to have that sense of community with all the other analytics teams that
are at Peloton helping make decisions. So we set up this data town hall event, and we had
presenters from the e-commerce analytics space that talked about some of our most exciting models.
Like Diana Morrell, who's on the call, spoke about her serial number of end stream model and
all the use cases that have come from that, and kind of showcase this design thinking element
and how she thinks like a data scientist. Those kinds of opportunities are really powerful.
And in that same data town hall, we also talked about tech stack. We talked about
programming approaches to ensure that our data models are well taken care of and documented for
others, and made sure that people knew how our data engineering stack was evolving. So those are
not only in the e-commerce analytics space, but a place where, yes, we share that.
Now, if you're asking me externally if we post, we do not at this time, but I'm always encouraging
my team to blog and share their great work. That's awesome. I really like the idea of the
data town hall event. How often does the team do those?
You know, it's a quarterly thing at this time. We're a distributed team, and resources are tight,
especially right now with the state of the economy. But right now, we plan to do that quarterly.
Cool. I see, Millie, you put a question into the chat just a little bit ago. Do you want to ask that
live on the call? Sure. Yeah. Hey, Melissa.
So I'm newer to the e-commerce space. I'm coming from higher education, and I'm now currently
working as a senior data analyst at Thinks. And I was just wondering if you, since you also
recently completed a degree, if you have any recommended e-commerce-specific resources or
communities that you like to reach out to so I can, I guess, catch up on the metrics and lingo
and the analytics for e-commerce? Yeah, that's a really good question, Millie.
Hi. Welcome to the group. And congratulations to you on taking this step in your career and
trying something new. That's just so admirable. And yeah, I'm familiar with Thinks as well.
Very cool company. Yeah, you know, I am not, I think there's a few, there's a few particular
areas where you might go out and find some critical KPIs for e-commerce.
I would just research that like I would anything else, like Googling it. But what I
can say is that, like, at Peloton, and in my team specifically, although my title is e-commerce
analytics, I don't, and my team never analyzed the kinds of metrics that you would think we would.
So it's always been kind of this misnomer, like, for e-commerce analytics, Millie, one of the
key metrics with this is really like for an engineering-based team. So it depends, like,
if your team is engineering-based and trying to constantly improve the engineering of your page,
or if it's like more business-facing and you're just trying to do things like
report and help people understand the transactions, like the sales transactions.
So my team kind of played on that latter role where we're helping executives understand the
state of sales and post-sale activity for the members. But like conversion rate,
that's one of the key metrics in e-commerce, like in the broader community. That's really
an engineering-facing metric at Peloton because all of the changes that those engineers make,
they want to see, okay, am I driving conversion? Am I getting more sales through making this
particular change on the website? So that's one that I would definitely start to familiarize
yourself with. And you may end up finding a community and sharing with me some of that
information, Millie. I wish I could be more helpful to you.
All good. Thank you.
I was just writing into the chat, too. I would love to try and gather some more
retail examples that we've seen, too. And I'm thinking about the hangout a few weeks back with
Jay from Harry Rosen, as well. That might be a helpful one to check out.
I see a few other Slido questions coming in, too. And one is, what are some of the
biggest challenges of working with non-technical stakeholders?
What are some of the biggest challenges of working with non-technical stakeholders?
Yes. So one of the challenges first is communication.
And figuring out how to resonate with a non-technical stakeholder when
your team and those that are working with you are primarily technical.
You have that challenge of building trust. Trust is the first. That's the biggest thing.
Right? They have to have an awareness and a belief that you're doing everything you can
to provide that data product that's going to help them do better. And so I do think it does
go back to that design thinking, that empathy, and having enough humility to ask people,
how can I really help you be better? And not having that belief as an analyst that you know
all the answers, because let me tell you, you do not. Numbers and data are only modeling what we
have been modeled. They're a representation of the truth. But on the ground, operationally,
there's always so much to learn. And you've got to really build those relationships with the folks
that are on the ground that you're trying to help so they know you care. So they just know you care.
And I think once you get over that hurdle and they know that you're trying to help them be
a better version of themselves and do better at work, then you've got that inroads to start
passing them. Okay, here's this report that you were asking for. How can we make this better?
Or hey, I see you're really struggling with this. Did you know that this is the journey
that you're on and you've made this much improvement? Or you know what, it looks like
we're getting worse in this area. I'm seeing a negative trend here. So it's really trust first,
then communication and figuring out to what extent do you need to read into that
person's technical capability and dial back all the things that you know. And this is
the hardest thing for me to tell my people. It's like, I care about your technical know-how and
your technical progression, but your stakeholder oftentimes does not, especially if they are
a non-technical person. It just overwhelms them. And if you're talking about
programs that you're using or the statistical elements and you're not being careful about how
you're positioning that, it can become very unapproachable very quickly. So it's definitely
a soft skill in an area that must be developed in order to truly get use cases into production.
Thank you. I see that Thamalu, apologies if I'm pronouncing your name incorrectly,
asked a question into the chat. And I'm not sure if you're still on, so I'm going to ask it live,
but feel free to jump in and add context too. But the question was, how do you identify data
loss due to system issues? They said that's part of my job I find very stressful. Okay.
So data loss due to systems issues. It's so funny because we had a situation like this come up
yesterday. So I think with that now, I will say this is not what I do in my everyday today role,
but I've done this role before earlier on. And I think it's a matter of laying out and understanding
the architecture first of the systems that are supposed to talk to one another. So when you
understand the process flow and the lineage of the data as it moves through, let's say from your
customer. So let's say your customer enters in their name on your website. And then you go and
you are assessing the next system that is integrated with that and supposed to receive
that and perhaps the name didn't flow over. Well, to what extent is that happening? Because
in complex systems, sometimes it's going to come over and sometimes it isn't. So I think in many
cases, it's a means of pulling data out of both of those systems that are allegedly supposed to
talk to each other in some way and then seeing what went and what didn't. A lot of times there
could be an integration issue there, or there could be a separate business process that's
flowing and then like it's not writing. So I think it's really a matter of taking a step back,
understanding the flows that you have assigned on your data collection process to really assess
like where is that data expected to go? And then where should I be seeing a one-for-one match?
We got to make sure we know that part first before we say it's lost.
All right, thank you. Deepsha, I see you asked actually two great questions into the chat.
Do you want to jump in and ask those? Sure, and I think one of the questions you almost
have answered it already, but you talked about having so many projects. How do you prioritize
between them? And the second question is, what proportion of these projects are stakeholder
driven versus you think, oh, this we know the product, so we think this is the right
idea. And then reaching out to your stakeholders, thinking you have a project idea,
which one of these usually tend to get more traction?
Yeah, this is such a great question. Thank you so much for asking it. And you're catching me at a
place in a space at Peloton where I am reassessing everything that my team does. So we're going
through times of radical change, and that is something that every leader is going to face,
like what should we be doing? I will tell you the truth and be super transparent with you.
Our data science team has been really in alignment with various stakeholder teams,
almost 30 teams across the company. So we've played that role, cross-functional role,
and almost like a service provider role for as long as I've been here. And we've really jumped
in and filled in holes where as a startup, Peloton was coming up and there was no infrastructure or
no data collection or no one to really provide this service to the company. And we raised our
hand. And we have lots of models that reflect our best effort to make these decisions. And that
has been my top priority so far. When I came in, it was taking in use cases like extended warranty
and cleaning that up. And it was very clear, that's your top priority. But as we take a step
back and really think about how we can add value to Peloton, sometimes those things
get deprioritized. And you start to think about, no, no, no, what is the cross-functional data
science team really need to do? How do we really tell our C-suite what's going on and what they
should do? And just like it's really exciting and a turnaround. And I think what has happened
because of the turnaround situation is we've seen a new group of leaders that use data holistically
in ways that our leadership team before didn't. And so as you see them using these new data points,
you start to get inspired about like, well, if they knew this, then they could do X, right? If
you knew what the lifetime value of each customer from each channel of sales was, then you could
figure out where to invest in more. And maybe that's the right role for the cross-functional
data team that doesn't really have a dog in any operational fight to be playing.
And I think that that's where at least I'll be speaking to my new leadership about changing the
priority. But that's what has happened so far. Does that help you? That does make sense. Thank you.
Yeah. I love hearing how excited you get talking about like the business making decisions with
data too. I see someone asked anonymously on Slido, what advice would you give to someone who
wants to transition from an individual contributor role to a manager role in data science?
Yes. So I have been here. I think when you're ready and you want to try it, you should raise
your hand and express yourself. That's the first piece of advice. You need to tell your leader.
You need to tell your mentor. Hopefully you have a mentor who is, that's another piece of advice,
is to get a mentor that might be doing that work that you want to do and start to talk to them,
hey, how'd you get here? What did you do? So that you have that different advice coming in
from different perspectives and you're getting, checking yourself because that's a big hurdle.
That is such a big hurdle to clear, moving from that IC role to a manager. It's a very vulnerable
state. So get someone else who's in your corner who can help you on that process. But yeah,
raise your hand and get a mentor who's already doing it. And then the third piece of advice
is to brace yourself for like a year, year and a half of constant change and wrestling with your
own brain because it's really difficult to take your hands off the keyboard. And so I would say
to give yourself some grace in doing that. Nobody gets it right. In the first, in that transition
period, like there's always going to be stumbling points where you're going to make a mistake. You're
going to step on somebody's toes. You're going to make one of your ICs feel like you're micromanaging
and you're really not. You're just trying to make sure it goes well, but give yourself some grace
and use that mentor to help you navigate those issues.
I really like what Libby just added into the chat as well on this topic too. I don't know if Libby,
you want to jump in with that? Sure. I don't know if anybody else has this experience, but
being maybe specifically a woman, being a kid who's like meek and always told to like be quiet and
not be a bother to anybody, it was a huge lesson for me as I moved through my life that I actually
had to verbalize and ask for what I wanted. No one was going to just hand it to me because I
deserved it. I had to say, hey, I want to do this. Can I do this? And that leaves you very vulnerable
and open to somebody saying no or saying that they don't think you're ready or whatever it is,
but you can sit around and spin your wheels forever if you don't at least
ask or put it out into the universe that you want it in some way.
Libby, I want to respond to that and just relate back to the room because
when I first raised my hand, I heard no and I had that mentor who was in my ear saying,
but you're ready and Peloton said yes and so did other companies too. So just because you hear that
no doesn't mean that the universe doesn't want you to do that. I love the way you said that Libby
and it's so important for everyone to hear. So the person who asked that, go for it. Go for it and try it.
Definitely. Thank you all. And I see somebody else asked an anonymous question that was,
do you have any tips for leading a team whose primary language is not yours? So, for example,
I'm taking a role and the team uses SAS and Python, whereas my background is R.
That's a really interesting thought.
Well, I guess primarily, I would, if I were put in that situation, I would truly take the strategic approach and try to
start by asking that team, what is it that you're working on? What is the value and the output that you're delivering?
And what do you think we should fix to make it better? And kind of see
where it is that they want to kick up and what would give them more energy and see
how you can play a small part. So maybe you have to spend a little bit of time learning enough to
be dangerous in the tool that they use. And that's really just so you can review their code and assess,
like, hey, is this done correctly given the business requirements? It's so easy to kind of,
when you're programming, make a different assumption or generate an output that is not
what you intend. The other thing I would recommend is to just try to put on that hat of, like, tool
agnosticism, where you start to learn multiple of these programming languages and get comfortable
with the fact that you don't know any of them. And oh, by the way, no one else knows all of them in
their head. That's the secret. Everyone else is Googling at work every day. And so even if you're
struggling to review that code, be comfortable going, I don't know this. Let me Google what
they did here and read some of those docs and see, like, does that make sense? Okay. And you'll get
your confidence about you, like, as you start to do that more. But I would say don't shy away from
what they're doing, even if it's in a different language. Like, try a little bit and see, like,
first assess, like, what's the area that they really need your help in? They probably don't
need you sitting there coding by them. They probably need you to address something bigger.
But you can always review their code and get your feet under you, even if you don't know the language.
Thank you. And I see, Brian, I think this was in relation to this question as well,
but you shared some thoughts in the chat, too, if you want to jump in.
And I think it was, oh, there you are, you're unmuted. There's two Brians here. I'm not sure
which Brian. So me? Somebody said, so trust your people and your job to make. Yeah, that was me.
That was the big transition from individual contributor to leadership is all about that.
Your job is to make sure your people have the tools and time to do the job. And that's it. And
you have to figure that out. Like, it's not about having check-ins with them every week or all this
other stuff. And it's really about you are now the interface between them and leadership. And
if it goes well, that's great. And you give your team credit. If it doesn't go well, it's on you.
It's not on your team. It's on you as a leader. So that's where people, that's where I see rookie
leaders run into trouble. First sign of problem, they'll pass the buck. You can't do that. And
as soon as you do that, your people will not trust you. And you will become a terrible leader.
They'll hang you out to dry without you even knowing it, and they even know it because
they realize they don't trust you. And so as a leader, you have to have that in you. You're the
buffer. Absolutely. I love that, Brian. I'm going through the chat to see if there were questions I
missed over here, but I know there are a few others coming through on Slido too. But just want
to remind people if you joined a little bit later that we have the Slido where you can ask questions
anonymously, and Tyler can share that link again. But also just feel free to raise your hand here
on Zoom to jump in too. But one of the other questions, Melissa, was can you tell us
more about the development of your team in parallel to the tech stack?
Yeah. So the tech stack we have at Peloton here is we use SQL, use AWS Redshift for most of our
data manipulation work. We use Looker as a BI front-end tool as well as Tableau for some of
our reporting work that gets done. And then as we go further, then just the BI work, we use
Jupyter Notebooks and Python to do our coding. And of course, like as I said earlier, all of this work,
our development process requires a little bit of dev because you do need to share your work in a
repository so that others can use it. That's kind of a principle on which we operate and manage changes.
So folks are coming to my team at all stages and abilities with that.
I expose them to the tooling based on where they can add value in the moment.
And so if there's a tool like Tableau where I know it's so complex that you can't just
sit down and start, we will pursue formal training. So we would figure out how many licenses
or with our license structure and how much training and development can we
provide to our people. But if it's something like that, they're going to get
advice to sit for a training like that. When it's a tool like Looker that's kind of more
approachable on the front end, I might sit and help them through working in that tool.
And we do some internal training as well. When it comes to like helping somebody make the shift
into R and Python, I do personally recommend kind of stepping away from work and learning
through a class or a boot camp where you're kind of making sure that you understand the
foundations of what's going on. Or like in R, I learned through the Swirl library how to
just program and get answers out of R. And I think doing exercises like that at work
and through your work, through the educational resources that are provided by your HR team,
if you're lucky enough to have those, like go take that class, go take that boot camp
and really understand what's going on that's appropriate for your role. We want to help
people understand, okay, this is what your role is. And so with that, these are the kind of tasks
that a data scientist will do. And so you need to learn how to do this much in Python or R.
Whereas if you want to learn how to pipeline data, I'm going to send you over to my colleagues,
right? Because I'm not really good at that. And I'm pretty open about that.
But yeah, I always recommend further education. But I do, I am open and honest with my team because
I think, you know, when you're busy and you've got a lot of work to do, sometimes that's really
difficult to hear as an individual contributor. Like, oh, I'm asking you to do more. We also try
to provide education in fun ways at Peloton. Like we have one of my colleagues, Will, he had this
idea to do a data labs concept where anybody on the team can come up with this idea. Like,
oh, I wish somebody was working on this at Peloton. And I'm being honest with you, it could be a PM.
And if they just want to try their hand at solving a data science problem,
we create a space for that where we kind of nurture the problem,
help them work through it with the resources we have and coach them up so they can get their
feet wet and get some exposure and get excited about data science, even if it's not their main
job. That sounds great. I love the data labs idea. I see. Thank you, Libby, for being an extra set
of eyes for me. David, you had your hand raised earlier for a question. You want to jump in?
And I see. Oh, there you are. No worries.
Thanks, Maya. I'm a first timer here.
Welcome.
I volunteered in the chat. Essentially, what I wanted to say was,
you know, the work life sustainability is really important and something that I
think is important to all of us. And I think it's really important to all of us to be able to
a, essentially what I wanted to say was, you know, the work life sustainability
is really important. And sometimes new managers don't see it coming, that somebody is going to
be leaving the team and you end up with a gap in the team and everybody has to pull up the slack.
One of the best ways to get your team's trust and your organization's trust is to make sure
that you have the capacity to get things done. So, you know, you always under-promise and
over-deliver. And you got to have people around you in order to do that as a manager. Thanks.
Absolutely. Wow. Very timely for me. And yes, yes to all that you said. Thank you.
I think, I see you had a question, you had a question in there too, David, maybe
in the one in the chat. Do you want to ask that too? I'm not sure I asked a question. Okay. I think
it was, somebody asked, who are you grooming? Okay. Yeah, those are questions for the manager.
Okay. Who are you grooming to join and how are you paving the way? Absolutely. Yes.
Yeah. The manager's focus moves from doing the work to creating the environment for the work to
get done. Definitely. I see. Let me go check over to Slido. Tyler, are there any questions that we
maybe missed on Slido? Oh, Javier, I see you have your hand raised. Jump in. Yeah, thanks. And
Melissa, I really like your insights. Thanks for sharing everything. So I'm just curious about,
you know, in my experience, I feel like some of the best data scientists that I've worked
with that have left the companies have just gotten bored. So, you know, things in our space
are moving so fast as is, how do you continue to give, you know, motivated employees who want to
continue to learn, you know, the opportunities for learning? Because once they start plateauing
or feel like they're not really learning anything new, despite them being more of an add value to
their current employer, you know, they themselves start looking elsewhere. So I don't know. Sort of
an open-ended question. Yeah. One of the very first things I do with my team, and I apologize,
I forgot to mention this, when I started talking about how do I develop people, because we were
talking like more technical earlier, but one of the very first conversations I have with my people
is like, where are you going after you leave me? Because inevitably, like, we're not going to work
together always, right? But my job, like, because I'm so people-oriented, is like, how do I make
sure that this experience and this relationship is beneficial for the both of us? And I think
in order, that's the conversation where you start to figure out what's motivating people.
Like, when I came to Peloton, I shared with my leader, like, I really want to work on figuring
out how to get use cases into production. I've been struggling with that for years. Like, that
was something that I said. But I've got people on my team that are like, you know what, I want to be
a data scientist. So I'm like, okay, well, let me go figure out how to get out there and find them
work. And so through my relationships and helping them empathize with people and figure out what
their problems are, we find use cases. And I am like kind of out there talking about their work,
how they've done such a great job on this dashboard thing. But, you know, really what I'm
hearing is that you're really trying to make this decision. And so, like, let's just use extended
warranty as an example. My team was delivering great reporting on sales and claims for a third
party warranty provider. But, you know, I had a data scientist sitting on the sideline that said,
you know, what if we could predict who was best positioned to buy an extended warranty?
And I said, go for it. Don't just sit there. Go for it. And so I kind of have them work on that
in the background. And then I go and do the politicking to go, hey, James, I've got something
for you. We're doing all this on the side that you've asked for. But you know what? I had a
person that was really curious. And they were curious about delivering this kind of value.
Why don't you check it out? And because we've done so much on the front end to answer that first
question and deliver value of what they actually asked, they'll receive it. And then that use case
continues to grow. And then it gets into prod if we're lucky. And that use case actually got
turned into a feature that is used for marketing. So one way or another, that's where it comes from.
And then that person grows. And then their mind grows, their eyes open. And then here they
continue. Now they're a data scientist. That's amazing. I love to hear about the way that you're
advocating for all the people on your team internally to get there. I see, Michelle,
you had a great question in the chat. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah. I was just curious about how your data org broadly draws the line between
data engineering, data science, and data analysts. And then for a particular use case that requires
more data modeling and pipelines from, let's say, like a raw data source that the company hasn't
touched yet, how do you collaborate with data engineers to deliver that value to the stakeholders?
Yeah, this is great. And my teammates who are on the call are probably smiling because we work
together. We work together with that center of excellence team. We sit right next to the data
engineering team. That's one of the reasons I wanted to come to Peloton because our center
of excellence team has that 15, 16-person data engineering squad. And they are filled with
data engineers who are doing everything from getting data out of pulling events off of our
Kafka streaming and bringing it into the lake. And then you have folks that are doing your
traditional ETL modeling as well as ELT modeling. They have analytics engineers as well who are
more so like alongside the data analysts in this space, like the data analysts being
the first folks at the front lines who are listening and talking to the business.
So, I mean, the way that we're, if you think of it in a cycle, you have your stakeholder
up first and then your data analyst like has that really close relationship with someone on
that stakeholder team. And they're saying, okay, well, these are like the requirements and this
is the problem I'm trying to solve. And then like, let's say you need a new pipeline. Well,
that is probably going to be built like in its first pass by an analytics engineer
from our data science or from our data engineering side of the house. And we get something like
a MVP going. And then after that, like we start thinking about, okay, do we need to evolve this
model? Is there something that needs to be improved on the engineering side of the house
to make this more efficient? So, our services team might get involved.
Beyond that, then you're thinking about, okay, here we've delivered this. You've got your
dashboard. You're seeing it. What's next for you? What decision are we making here? And that's when
our data scientists come in and they begin to start modeling that decision and outputting the
results. And we would work with, once we're sitting on those results, we would visualize them,
assess the quality. And beyond that, you're figuring out where to pipe that service.
I mean, where do you take that answer and serve it up? Because the results of that decision might
not be best in a dashboard, especially if you're delivering it to somebody in a warehouse. Maybe we
need to pipe it into that warehouse tool. So, we have another set. Some of our data engineers are
like more generalized. They can do it all. Like, they're amazing. And so, they would write services
for us. I hope that helped. That's how our shop runs. We also collaborate with other people across
Peloton, though. You know, there's folks in IT who are configuring IT systems that people are touching.
And sometimes it's just a matter of, like, landing data in Redshift and getting it picked up from
another team. It really depends. It really depends, Michelle. But that's a fabulous question.
Thank you. I see. Well, I actually had one quick question, too. I know you mentioned the Center of
Excellence a few times. And I was just curious to learn more about, like, what that Center of
Excellence is, and if that's a model that you recommend for other teams, too.
Yeah. You know what? I'm sure other leaders on the call are smiling because I think, you know, I've
worked in an embedded role before and loved it. Center of Excellence, let me just define what I
mean by that. I mean that there's a team of folks in what we call the data science team, or the data
and analytics team, and they serve the business in this, like, central function. They're providing
frameworks, the tech stack, places to document things, process, structure, training, training on the tech stack, like, expertise.
And then beyond that, you've got other analytics teams that are throughout the company that are also trying to make their, help their leaders make decisions, but probably more rapidly, more rapid fire. They would utilize the expertise and the tech stack from the central team to help their leaders.
And usually, their leaders want things yesterday, and, you know, that central team doesn't necessarily have the capacity to, like, intake and work all that, but they do have the capacity to keep things clean and organized. And so that's really what I mean by that. How's that working at Peloton? Well, we're continuing to evolve our story there. I think, you know, we're in a space where we're going to be able to keep things organized.
That's really what I mean by that. How's that working at Peloton? Well, we're continuing to evolve our story there. I think, you know, we're in a space now where we've got a little bit of a patchwork going on. We're, you know, growing out of a startup phase, and that's natural. And so we hone it all in and then send it all back out with our new leadership. So, and what I mean by honing it all in is, like, getting everybody realigned.
Building those relationships, standardizing some of those relationships with the teams that are depending on that center of excellence. So it's a lot of work, but good work.
Important for a company of our size to get alignment. That way your leaders don't have multiple versions of the truth.
Thank you. That's really helpful.
I see. I think Libby, you put a question into the chat just a few minutes ago. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah. My question was, what made you want to make that initial shift from individual contributor to people leader in the first place?
And did you have any concerns or reservations going into that leadership journey where you were like, okay, let's try this? I'm worried about these things. What did that look like for you?
Yeah. Very, very good question. I realized very quickly when I was a business analyst working in education that I like people.
I like seeing other people do good work, improve their work using data, get more strategic, be more successful. I like using data in that way.
But I recognized very quickly that as an IC, I wasn't necessarily the one that was achieving that. I saw my leaders doing that.
I saw them rubbing elbows and doing the politics to get the data in use.
And then I'm like, okay, I want to learn how to do that because I got to this point of frustration where it's like, how many dashboards can I build before my brain just explodes and nobody listens?
And what are they even doing with this data? And why would they do that? And how does this company even make money?
What's the strategy here? And I just found my backgrounds in economics, I just cared more about that. I just cared more about that social element of it and helping the work become a success, making value out of the work than I did actually touching the keyboard.
Now, don't get me wrong, every once in a while, I'll pick up a ticket and just vibe. It's a flow when you're doing something. I still feel that way sometimes when I do some work.
I'm still a nerd. I still like to talk about how to model things and what data goes in. But I wanted to do it from a different angle. And as I also like to help my stakeholders do better, I really like to grow people's careers.
That's like nirvana for me. Once I can see somebody, that analyst grow from a data scientist, that was like a crowning moment. I'm like, okay, yeah, this is right.
Now, like I said, I had people tell me no when I first stepped out as a leader. I don't know if you've ever heard, she's not technical enough. That was funny. Had to work through that.
Still a trigger point for me because here I am. I'm social. I like to help people. And then so it called into question my technical ability. Well, that wasn't very good for the ego or the confidence. But I've worked past that.
In a weak point, sometimes I'll go there and have that imposter syndrome. But it's my people and my stakeholders that build me back up. Get that feedback. This is really helpful. So yeah, I would say that that was the biggest hurdle that I faced.
And I did pursue more education because I did realize that my skills had atrophied at like that business analyst layer. And I couldn't progress. I couldn't go further into the analytics engineering or the data science and truly be able to produce or understand what those people do. So I did pursue more education to address that.
Awesome. Thank you.
That's so incredibly helpful, Melissa.
I'm thinking about like wanting to actually change the strategy there and figure out how to how to make the business better. Getting to that point. I am. I remember when we were talking briefly before the hangout, something we were going to discuss, which I didn't, I know we didn't talk about yet was what's the biggest need that you have to address in Peloton?
Data science community.
Yeah, I think right now it's
establishing one source of truth and gaining alignment. Like when we were talking earlier about the center of excellence, it's like refining and truly being a thought leader for what does that mean for how we behave, how we how we treat one another, how we communicate and talk to each other about data.
What does it mean for evolving thought leadership around concepts like data governance? You know, at a fast moving company like Peloton, you say data governance, like people are, what do you mean? Like, you're about to slow me down. You're about to say this and this. And I'm like, no, like, we literally we can't. Like, you have to give these folks over here a shot. You have to listen. And I'm listening and I'm going to adopt this and I want you to too.
So, like, I think it's figuring out how to show up in the center of excellence space and bring along all my colleagues. I've got like 30 stakeholder teams and like figuring out how to have them show up in the space and truly work together like a Peloton, you know.
I'm sure I'm not the only person who like, you know, your company culture says one thing and then you get into the data space and it's like a completely different thing. But we can probably all laugh on the inside about that.
Thank you so much. I think we did a pretty good job of capturing everything. Thank you so much, Melissa, for joining us. It's been so fun and really love getting to hear your insights and your experience. Really appreciate it.
Absolutely. Thanks for having me. This is such a joy and I can't wait to see the folks that present in the coming weeks.
Thank you all.
Yes, thank you. And next week, we will be joined by Jesse Pluto, who works at Comcast. Can't remember title right off the top of my head right now, but really excited to see you all next week as well. Thank you so much, Melissa. And thank you all for all the great questions as always. Have a great rest of the day.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai